UPGRADE.md, before:

# Upgrade guide

## From 0.7.* to 0.8.0

### New method for `RequestValidatorInterface`, `RequestDataTransformerInterface`, `DTOValidatorInterface` and `HandlerWrapperInterface`

The interfaces have been extended with `areParametersValid(mixed $parameters): bool` which validates the parameters of the configuration on cache warmup. All request validators, request data transformers, dto validators and handler wrappers therefore need to implement this new method.

For example the `SilentExceptionWrapper` validates whether the parameters are an array of exceptions.

```php
/** @param array<array-key, class-string<\Throwable>> $parameters */
public static function areParametersValid(mixed $parameters): bool
{
    if (!is_array($parameters)) {
        return false;
    }

    foreach ($parameters as $exceptionClass) {
        if (!class_exists($exceptionClass)) {
            return false;
        }

        $reflectionClass = new \ReflectionClass($exceptionClass);
        if (!$reflectionClass->implementsInterface(\Throwable::class)) {
            return false;
        }
    }

    return true;
}
```

When there are no parameters needed, the validation can look as simple as this:

```php
/** @param null $parameters */
public static function areParametersValid(mixed $parameters): bool
{
    return $parameters === null;
}
```

### Update handler wrapper configuration

The `HandlerWrapperConfiguration` object was dropped in favor of using the class name as key and supplying the parameters directly as value.

Before:

```php
'routePayload' => Configuration::routePayload(
    handlerWrapperConfigurations: [
        new HandlerWrapperConfiguration(ConnectionTransactionWrapper::class),
        new HandlerWrapperConfiguration(
            handlerWrapperClass: SilentExceptionWrapper::class,
            parameters: [
                EmailAddressDidNotChange::class,
            ],
        ),
    ],
),
```

After:

```php
'routePayload' => Configuration::routePayload(
    handlerWrapperClasses: [
        ConnectionTransactionWrapper::class => null,
        SilentExceptionWrapper::class => [
              EmailAddressDidNotChange::class,
        ],
    ],
),
```

The bundle configuration also needs to be updated to set the classes as key in the configuration of the default handler wrappers and use parameters as value. Use `null` when no parameter is needed. This change enabled the default handler wrappers to use parameters.

Before:

```php
return static function (CqrsConfig $cqrsConfig) {
    $cqrsConfig->queryController()
        ->defaultHandlerWrapperClasses([
            ConnectionTransactionWrapper::class,
        ]);

    $cqrsConfig->commandController()
        ->defaultHandlerWrapperClasses([
            ConnectionTransactionWrapper::class,
        ]);
```

After:

```php
return static function (CqrsConfig $cqrsConfig) {
    $cqrsConfig->queryController()
        ->defaultHandlerWrapperClasses([
            ConnectionTransactionWrapper::class => null,
        ]);

    $cqrsConfig->commandController()
        ->defaultHandlerWrapperClasses([
            ConnectionTransactionWrapper::class => null,
        ]);
```

## From 0.6.* to 0.7.0

### Upgrade to at least PHP 8.1

Support for PHP 8.0 was dropped, so you have to upgrade to at least PHP 8.1.

## From 0.5.* to 0.6.0

### Interface `DTODataTransformerInterface` was renamed to `RequestDataTransformerInterface`

The method was renamed from `transformDTOData` to `transformRequestData` and the parameter `$dtoData` was renamed to `$requestData`.

Before:

```php
final class YourCustomDTODataTransformer implements DTODataTransformerInterface
{
    /** @param class-string $dtoClass */
    public function transformDTOData(string $dtoClass, array $dtoData): object
    {
        ...
    }
}
```

After:

```php
final class YourCustomRequestDataTransformer implements RequestDataTransformerInterface
{
    /** @param class-string $dtoClass */
    public function transformRequestData(string $dtoClass, array $requestData): object
    {
        ...
    }
}
```

### Request data parameter in `DTOConstructorInterface`

The parameter `$dtoData` was renamed to `$requestData`.

Before:

```php
final class YourCustomDTOConstructor implements DTOConstructorInterface
{
    /**
     * @return Command|Query
     * 
     * @psalm-template T of Command|Query
     * @psalm-param class-string<T> $dtoClass
     * @psalm-return T
     */
    public function constructDTO(array $dtoData, string $dtoClass): object
    {
        ...
    }
}
```

After:

```php
final class YourCustomDTOConstructor implements DTOConstructorInterface
{
    /**
     * @psalm-template T of Command|Query
     * @psalm-param class-string<T> $dtoClass
     * @psalm-return T
     */
    public function constructDTO(array $requestData, string $dtoClass): Command|Query
    {
        ...
    }
}
```

## From 0.4.* to 0.5.0

### More specific return type for `DTOConstructorInterface`

The `DTOConstructorInterface` now returns `Command|Query` instead of `object`. You need to adapt the return types in your implementations.

Before:

```php
final class YourCustomDTOConstructor implements DTOConstructorInterface
{
    /**
     * @return Command|Query
     * 
     * @psalm-template T of Command|Query
     * @psalm-param class-string<T> $dtoClass
     * @psalm-return T
     */
    public function constructDTO(array $dtoData, string $dtoClass): object
    {
        ...
    }
}
```

After:

```php
final class YourCustomDTOConstructor implements DTOConstructorInterface
{
    /**
     * @psalm-template T of Command|Query
     * @psalm-param class-string<T> $dtoClass
     * @psalm-return T
     */
    public function constructDTO(array $dtoData, string $dtoClass): Command|Query
    {
        ...
    }
}
```

### Removed finally logic in `HandlerWrapperInterface`

The `HandlerWrapperInterface` lost "finally logic". It turns out that there are no cases that can't be handled with just `then` and `catch` and on the other hand, there might be issues when multiple handler wrappers are used and can't be matched with the priority, because `finally` was always triggered last. The methods `finally` and `finallyPriority` have been removed from the interface. The logic of implementations must be adapted in a way that the logic is moved from `finally` into `then` and `catch`.

Before:

```php
final class YourCustomHandlerWrapper implements HandlerWrapperInterface
{
    private ?LockInterface $lock = null;

    public function __construct(
        private LockService $lockService,
    ) {
    }

    /**
     * Only one request per user is handled at once.
     *
     * @param YourActionCommand $dto
     */
    public function prepare(
        Command|Query $dto,
        Request $request,
        mixed $parameters,
    ): void {
        $lockPath = sprintf(
            'your-action-%s',
            (string) $dto->userId,
        );

        $this->lock = $this->lockService->createLock($lockPath);
        $this->lock->acquire(true);
    }

    /** @param null $parameters */
    public function catch(
        Command|Query $dto,
        Request $request,
        mixed $parameters,
        \Exception $exception,
    ): ?\Exception {
        // Nothing to do

        return $exception;
    }

    /** @param null $parameters */
    public function then(
        Command|Query $dto,
        Request $request,
        mixed $parameters,
    ): void {
        // Nothing to do
    }
    
    /** @param null $parameters */
    public function finally(
        Command|Query $dto,
        Request $request,
        mixed $parameters,
    ): void {
        if ($this->lock !== null) {
            $this->lock->release();
        }
    }

    // Priorities

    public static function preparePriority(): int
    {
        return 200;
    }

    public static function catchPriority(): int
    {
        return 0;
    }

    public static function thenPriority(): int
    {
        return 0;
    }
    
    public static function finallyPriority(): int
    {
        return 0;
    }
}
```

After:

```php
final class YourCustomHandlerWrapper implements HandlerWrapperInterface
{
    private ?LockInterface $lock = null;

    public function __construct(
        private LockService $lockService,
    ) {
    }

    /**
     * Only one request per user is handled at once.
     *
     * @param YourActionCommand $dto
     */
    public function prepare(
        Command|Query $dto,
        Request $request,
        mixed $parameters,
    ): void {
        $lockPath = sprintf(
            'your-action-%s',
            (string) $dto->userId,
        );

        $this->lock = $this->lockService->createLock($lockPath);
        $this->lock->acquire(true);
    }

    /** @param null $parameters */
    public function catch(
        Command|Query $dto,
        Request $request,
        mixed $parameters,
        \Exception $exception,
    ): ?\Exception {
        if ($this->lock !== null) {
            $this->lock->release();
        }

        return $exception;
    }

    /** @param null $parameters */
    public function then(
        Command|Query $dto,
        Request $request,
        mixed $parameters,
    ): void {
        if ($this->lock !== null) {
            $this->lock->release();
        }
    }

    // Priorities

    public static function preparePriority(): int
    {
        return 200;
    }

    public static function catchPriority(): int
    {
        return 0;
    }

    public static function thenPriority(): int
    {
        return 0;
    }
}
```

## From 0.3.* to 0.4.0

### Removed `NullableAsOptionalPropertiesDTODataTransformer`

It turned out that the `NullableAsOptionalPropertiesDTODataTransformer` isn't of any use, as the Symfony serializer in the supported range, already set's nullable properties to `null` when they aren't supplied as data. Therefore, you just have to remove it from all routes you added it to. 

Before:

```php
$routes->add(
    'api_your_domain_your_command',
    '/api/your-domain/your-command',
)
    ->controller([CommandController::class, 'handle'])
    ->methods([Request::METHOD_POST])
    ->defaults([
        'routePayload' => Configuration::routePayload(
            dtoClass: YourCommand::class,
            handlerClass: YourCommandHandler::class,
            dtoDataTransformerClasses: [
                NullableAsOptionalPropertiesDTODataTransformer::class,
            ],
        ),
    ]);
```

After:

```php
$routes->add(
    'api_your_domain_your_command',
    '/api/your-domain/your-command',
)
    ->controller([CommandController::class, 'handle'])
    ->methods([Request::METHOD_POST])
    ->defaults([
        'routePayload' => Configuration::routePayload(
            dtoClass: YourCommand::class,
            handlerClass: YourCommandHandler::class,
        ),
    ]);
```

## From 0.2.* to 0.3.0

### New parameter `string $dtoClass` for `DTODataTransformerInterface`

The `transformDTOData` method in the `DTODataTransformerInterface` was extended with a new parameter `string $dtoClass`. Add this new parameter in your implementations of the interface.

Before:

```php
final class YourCustomDTODataTransformer implements DTODataTransformerInterface
{
    public function transformDTOData(array $dtoData): array
    {
        ...
    }
}
```

After:

```php
final class YourCustomDTODataTransformer implements DTODataTransformerInterface
{
    public function transformDTOData(string $dtoClass, array $dtoData): array
    {
        ...
    }
}
```

Commit message:

Added upgrade description for renaming of Configuration

UPGRADE.md, after:

# Upgrade guide

## From 0.7.* to 0.8.0

### Renamed `Configuration` to `RoutePayload` and converted to a value object

The dto `Configuration` was renamed to `RoutePayload` and moved from `DigitalCraftsman\CQRS\DTO` to `DigitalCraftsman\CQRS\ValueObject`. The named constructor was also renamed from `routePayload` to `generate`.

The method `generate` now validates the input (through the constructor) and doesn't just rely on Psalm for the validation. The validation is done on warmup of the cache for all routes and for the specific route when triggered. The bundle configuration is validated now as well.

Before:

```php
use DigitalCraftsman\CQRS\DTO\Configuration;

'routePayload' => Configuration::routePayload(
    ...
),
```

After:

```php
use DigitalCraftsman\CQRS\ValueObject\RoutePayload;

'routePayload' => RoutePayload::generate(
    ...
),
```

### New method for `RequestValidatorInterface`, `RequestDataTransformerInterface`, `DTOValidatorInterface` and `HandlerWrapperInterface`

The interfaces have been extended with `areParametersValid(mixed $parameters): bool` which validates the parameters of the configuration on cache warmup. All request validators, request data transformers, dto validators and handler wrappers therefore need to implement this new method.

For example the `SilentExceptionWrapper` validates whether the parameters are an array of exceptions.

```php
/** @param array<array-key, class-string<\Throwable>> $parameters */
public static function areParametersValid(mixed $parameters): bool
{
    if (!is_array($parameters)) {
        return false;
    }

    foreach ($parameters as $exceptionClass) {
        if (!class_exists($exceptionClass)) {
            return false;
        }

        $reflectionClass = new \ReflectionClass($exceptionClass);
        if (!$reflectionClass->implementsInterface(\Throwable::class)) {
            return false;
        }
    }

    return true;
}
```

When there are no parameters needed, the validation can look as simple as this:

```php
/** @param null $parameters */
public static function areParametersValid(mixed $parameters): bool
{
    return $parameters === null;
}
```

### Update handler wrapper configuration

The `HandlerWrapperConfiguration` object was dropped in favor of using the class name as key and supplying the parameters directly as value.

Before:

```php
'routePayload' => Configuration::routePayload(
    handlerWrapperConfigurations: [
        new HandlerWrapperConfiguration(ConnectionTransactionWrapper::class),
        new HandlerWrapperConfiguration(
            handlerWrapperClass: SilentExceptionWrapper::class,
            parameters: [
                EmailAddressDidNotChange::class,
            ],
        ),
    ],
),
```

After:

```php
'routePayload' => Configuration::routePayload(
    handlerWrapperClasses: [
        ConnectionTransactionWrapper::class => null,
        SilentExceptionWrapper::class => [
              EmailAddressDidNotChange::class,
        ],
    ],
),
```

The bundle configuration also needs to be updated to set the classes as key in the configuration of the default handler wrappers and use parameters as value. Use `null` when no parameter is needed. This change enabled the default handler wrappers to use parameters.

Before:

```php
return static function (CqrsConfig $cqrsConfig) {
    $cqrsConfig->queryController()
        ->defaultHandlerWrapperClasses([
            ConnectionTransactionWrapper::class,
        ]);

    $cqrsConfig->commandController()
        ->defaultHandlerWrapperClasses([
            ConnectionTransactionWrapper::class,
        ]);
```

After:

```php
return static function (CqrsConfig $cqrsConfig) {
    $cqrsConfig->queryController()
        ->defaultHandlerWrapperClasses([
            ConnectionTransactionWrapper::class => null,
        ]);

    $cqrsConfig->commandController()
        ->defaultHandlerWrapperClasses([
            ConnectionTransactionWrapper::class => null,
        ]);
```

## From 0.6.* to 0.7.0

### Upgrade to at least PHP 8.1

Support for PHP 8.0 was dropped, so you have to upgrade to at least PHP 8.1.

## From 0.5.* to 0.6.0

### Interface `DTODataTransformerInterface` was renamed to `RequestDataTransformerInterface`

The method was renamed from `transformDTOData` to `transformRequestData` and the parameter `$dtoData` was renamed to `$requestData`.

Before:

```php
final class YourCustomDTODataTransformer implements DTODataTransformerInterface
{
    /** @param class-string $dtoClass */
    public function transformDTOData(string $dtoClass, array $dtoData): object
    {
        ...
    }
}
```

After:

```php
final class YourCustomRequestDataTransformer implements RequestDataTransformerInterface
{
    /** @param class-string $dtoClass */
    public function transformRequestData(string $dtoClass, array $requestData): object
    {
        ...
    }
}
```

### Request data parameter in `DTOConstructorInterface`

The parameter `$dtoData` was renamed to `$requestData`.

Before:

```php
final class YourCustomDTOConstructor implements DTOConstructorInterface
{
    /**
     * @return Command|Query
     * 
     * @psalm-template T of Command|Query
     * @psalm-param class-string<T> $dtoClass
     * @psalm-return T
     */
    public function constructDTO(array $dtoData, string $dtoClass): object
    {
        ...
    }
}
```

After:

```php
final class YourCustomDTOConstructor implements DTOConstructorInterface
{
    /**
     * @psalm-template T of Command|Query
     * @psalm-param class-string<T> $dtoClass
     * @psalm-return T
     */
    public function constructDTO(array $requestData, string $dtoClass): Command|Query
    {
        ...
    }
}
```

## From 0.4.* to 0.5.0

### More specific return type for `DTOConstructorInterface`

The `DTOConstructorInterface` now returns `Command|Query` instead of `object`. You need to adapt the return types in your implementations.

Before:

```php
final class YourCustomDTOConstructor implements DTOConstructorInterface
{
    /**
     * @return Command|Query
     * 
     * @psalm-template T of Command|Query
     * @psalm-param class-string<T> $dtoClass
     * @psalm-return T
     */
    public function constructDTO(array $dtoData, string $dtoClass): object
    {
        ...
    }
}
```

After:

```php
final class YourCustomDTOConstructor implements DTOConstructorInterface
{
    /**
     * @psalm-template T of Command|Query
     * @psalm-param class-string<T> $dtoClass
     * @psalm-return T
     */
    public function constructDTO(array $dtoData, string $dtoClass): Command|Query
    {
        ...
    }
}
```

### Removed finally logic in `HandlerWrapperInterface`

The `HandlerWrapperInterface` lost "finally logic". It turns out that there are no cases that can't be handled with just `then` and `catch` and on the other hand, there might be issues when multiple handler wrappers are used and can't be matched with the priority, because `finally` was always triggered last. The methods `finally` and `finallyPriority` have been removed from the interface. The logic of implementations must be adapted in a way that the logic is moved from `finally` into `then` and `catch`.

Before:

```php
final class YourCustomHandlerWrapper implements HandlerWrapperInterface
{
    private ?LockInterface $lock = null;

    public function __construct(
        private LockService $lockService,
    ) {
    }

    /**
     * Only one request per user is handled at once.
     *
     * @param YourActionCommand $dto
     */
    public function prepare(
        Command|Query $dto,
        Request $request,
        mixed $parameters,
    ): void {
        $lockPath = sprintf(
            'your-action-%s',
            (string) $dto->userId,
        );

        $this->lock = $this->lockService->createLock($lockPath);
        $this->lock->acquire(true);
    }

    /** @param null $parameters */
    public function catch(
        Command|Query $dto,
        Request $request,
        mixed $parameters,
        \Exception $exception,
    ): ?\Exception {
        // Nothing to do

        return $exception;
    }

    /** @param null $parameters */
    public function then(
        Command|Query $dto,
        Request $request,
        mixed $parameters,
    ): void {
        // Nothing to do
    }
    
    /** @param null $parameters */
    public function finally(
        Command|Query $dto,
        Request $request,
        mixed $parameters,
    ): void {
        if ($this->lock !== null) {
            $this->lock->release();
        }
    }

    // Priorities

    public static function preparePriority(): int
    {
        return 200;
    }

    public static function catchPriority(): int
    {
        return 0;
    }

    public static function thenPriority(): int
    {
        return 0;
    }
    
    public static function finallyPriority(): int
    {
        return 0;
    }
}
```

After:

```php
final class YourCustomHandlerWrapper implements HandlerWrapperInterface
{
    private ?LockInterface $lock = null;

    public function __construct(
        private LockService $lockService,
    ) {
    }

    /**
     * Only one request per user is handled at once.
     *
     * @param YourActionCommand $dto
     */
    public function prepare(
        Command|Query $dto,
        Request $request,
        mixed $parameters,
    ): void {
        $lockPath = sprintf(
            'your-action-%s',
            (string) $dto->userId,
        );

        $this->lock = $this->lockService->createLock($lockPath);
        $this->lock->acquire(true);
    }

    /** @param null $parameters */
    public function catch(
        Command|Query $dto,
        Request $request,
        mixed $parameters,
        \Exception $exception,
    ): ?\Exception {
        if ($this->lock !== null) {
            $this->lock->release();
        }

        return $exception;
    }

    /** @param null $parameters */
    public function then(
        Command|Query $dto,
        Request $request,
        mixed $parameters,
    ): void {
        if ($this->lock !== null) {
            $this->lock->release();
        }
    }

    // Priorities

    public static function preparePriority(): int
    {
        return 200;
    }

    public static function catchPriority(): int
    {
        return 0;
    }

    public static function thenPriority(): int
    {
        return 0;
    }
}
```

## From 0.3.* to 0.4.0

### Removed `NullableAsOptionalPropertiesDTODataTransformer`

It turned out that the `NullableAsOptionalPropertiesDTODataTransformer` isn't of any use, as the Symfony serializer in the supported range, already set's nullable properties to `null` when they aren't supplied as data. Therefore, you just have to remove it from all routes you added it to. 

Before:

```php
$routes->add(
    'api_your_domain_your_command',
    '/api/your-domain/your-command',
)
    ->controller([CommandController::class, 'handle'])
    ->methods([Request::METHOD_POST])
    ->defaults([
        'routePayload' => Configuration::routePayload(
            dtoClass: YourCommand::class,
            handlerClass: YourCommandHandler::class,
            dtoDataTransformerClasses: [
                NullableAsOptionalPropertiesDTODataTransformer::class,
            ],
        ),
    ]);
```

After:

```php
$routes->add(
    'api_your_domain_your_command',
    '/api/your-domain/your-command',
)
    ->controller([CommandController::class, 'handle'])
    ->methods([Request::METHOD_POST])
    ->defaults([
        'routePayload' => Configuration::routePayload(
            dtoClass: YourCommand::class,
            handlerClass: YourCommandHandler::class,
        ),
    ]);
```

## From 0.2.* to 0.3.0

### New parameter `string $dtoClass` for `DTODataTransformerInterface`

The `transformDTOData` method in the `DTODataTransformerInterface` was extended with a new parameter `string $dtoClass`. Add this new parameter in your implementations of the interface.

Before:

```php
final class YourCustomDTODataTransformer implements DTODataTransformerInterface
{
    public function transformDTOData(array $dtoData): array
    {
        ...
    }
}
```

After:

```php
final class YourCustomDTODataTransformer implements DTODataTransformerInterface
{
    public function transformDTOData(string $dtoClass, array $dtoData): array
    {
        ...
    }
}
```
