docs/routing.md, before:

# Routing

For better typing and refactoring, the routing must be configured with PHP files instead of the usual YAML files.

When the routes are generated (on cache warmup), they are cached as PHP files. Therefore, the configuration can't contain any object instances. For increased type safety and better DX, we use a DTO with named parameters to configure our routes:

```php
$routes->add(
    'api_news_create_news_article_command',
    '/api/news/create-news-article-command',
)
    ->controller([CommandController::class, 'handle'])
    ->methods([Request::METHOD_POST])
    ->defaults([
        'routePayload' => Configuration::routePayload(
            dtoClass: CreateProductNewsArticleCommand::class,
            handlerClass: CreateProductNewsArticleCommandHandler::class,
            requestDecoderClass: CommandWithFilesRequestDecoder::class,
            dtoValidatorClasses: [
                UserIdValidator::class,
            ],
        ),
    ]);
```

All parameters except `dtoClass` and `handlerClass` are optional. You might only need to define those when you only need the default components for the other parameters ([configured in the `cqrs.yaml`](./configuration.md)).

## Overwrite DTO validators or handler wrappers

The DTO validators and handler wrappers are defined as an array. It's imporant to know that when you use the `dtoValidatorClasses` or `handlerWrapperConfigurations` parameter, the defaults are overwritten and not extended.

Meaning when your default DTO validators are defined with one validator like this:

```yaml
cqrs:
  command_controller:
    default_dto_validator_classes:
      - 'App\CQRS\DTOValidator\UserIdValidator'
```

And you then adapt it like this:

```php
'routePayload' => Configuration::routePayload(
    dtoValidatorClasses: [
        FilesizeValidator::class,
    ],
),
```

The end result is that only the `FilesizeValidator` is left. You need to include the defaults if you still want them to be there. 

This way you're also able to remove all default DTO validators from a route like this:

```php
'routePayload' => Configuration::routePayload(
    dtoValidatorClasses: [],
),
```

Commit message:

Add parameters to request validator, request data transformer and DTO validator and renamed Configuration (#32)
* Add parameters to request validator, request data transformer and dto validator

* Add are parameters valid method to interfaces

* Move merge methods to route payload

* Add upgrade guide for new method

* Link from changelog

* Added upgrade description for renaming of Configuration

* Link from changelog

* Add tests for route payload

* Adapt configuration docs and add PHP variant

* Adapt routing docs

* Add yaml note

* Adapt dto validator docs

* Update handler wrapper docs

* Add docs for request data transformer

* Improve request validator docs

* Improve changelog and upgrade guide

* Improved changelog

* Add missing breaking change link

* Mark internal parts as internal

Co-authored-by: Christian Kolb <info@digital-craftsman.de>

docs/routing.md, after:

# Routing

For better typing and refactoring, the routing must be configured with PHP files instead of the usual YAML files.

When the routes are generated (on cache warmup), they are cached as PHP files. Therefore, the configuration can't contain any object instances. For increased type safety and better DX, we use a value object with named parameters to configure our routes. All parameters are validated on cache warmup and the specific route again on execution.

```php
$routes->add(
    'api_news_create_news_article_command',
    '/api/news/create-news-article-command',
)
    ->controller([CommandController::class, 'handle'])
    ->methods([Request::METHOD_POST])
    ->defaults([
        'routePayload' => RoutePayload::generate(
            dtoClass: CreateProductNewsArticleCommand::class,
            handlerClass: CreateProductNewsArticleCommandHandler::class,
            requestDecoderClass: CommandWithFilesRequestDecoder::class,
            dtoValidatorClasses: [
                UserIdValidator::class => null,
            ],
        ),
    ]);
```

All parameters except `dtoClass` and `handlerClass` are optional. You might only need to define those when you only need the default components for the other parameters ([configured in the `cqrs.yaml`](./configuration.md)).

## Overwrite DTO validators or handler wrappers

The DTO validators and handler wrappers are defined as an array. It's imporant to know that when you use the `dtoValidatorClasses` or `handlerWrapperConfigurations` parameter, the defaults are overwritten and not extended.

Meaning when your default DTO validators are defined with one validator like this:

```php
return static function (CqrsConfig $cqrsConfig) {
    $cqrsConfig->commandController()
        ->defaultDtoValidatorClasses([
            UserIdValidator::class => null,
        ]);
```

And you then adapt it like this:

```php
'routePayload' => RoutePayload::generate(
    dtoValidatorClasses: [
        FilesizeValidator::class => null,
    ],
),
```

The end result is that only the `FilesizeValidator` is left. You need to include the defaults if you still want them to be there. 

This way you're also able to remove all default DTO validators from a route like this:

```php
'routePayload' => RoutePayload::generate(
    dtoValidatorClasses: [],
),
```
